Let's review how schema registry works.
At its core, schema registry is simply
a web-server built on the JVM using Java and Scala.
As with Kafka, the decision to use the JVM to build schema registry means that
it's a highly portable application and will run on just by any operating system.
Schema registry does not use a traditional database to store a state.
Instead, it utilizes Kafka itself to store data in a Schemas topic.
Schema Registry uses log compaction to ensure that no data loss will occur.
Schema registry simply exposes
an HTTP web-server with a REST API for managing your schemas.
Whenever you use a client library that integrates with schema registry,
it is simply using the schema registry REST API under the hood.
You can run more than one schema registry node at
a time to form a schema registry cluster.
Finally, similar to how Kafka itself uses ZooKeeper,
schema registry also uses ZooKeeper to choose
a single scheme registry web-server leader in a given cluster of schema registry nodes.